Update web app manifest page and add missing `file_handlers` member (#25222)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/manifest/file_handlers/index.md

---
title: file_handlers
slug: Web/Manifest/file_handlers
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: html.manifest.file_handlers
---

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Type</th>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Mandatory</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> The `file_handlers` member specifies an array of objects that represent types of files that an installed [Progressive web app (PWA)](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) should handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `file_handlers` member specifies an array of objects that represent types of files that an installed [progressive web app (PWA)](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) can handle.
```

> The `file_handlers` member is used by the browser when the PWA is installed to register the application in the operating system's file association registry.

Author: Done.

> For example, a PWA can register to handle files that match the `text/plain` [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types). Once installed, the operating system will use the PWA to handle text files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a PWA can register to handle files that match the `text/plain` [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types). Once installed, the operating system might use the PWA to handle text files.
```

Note that the way operating systems manage and let users select an application to handle a given file varies.

## Values

Each file handler object contains the following values:

<table class="fullwidth-table standard-table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Member</th>
      <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>action</code></td>
      <td>
        A required string containing the URL to navigate to when a file is handled. This URL should be within the <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/scope">scope</a> of the PWA.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>accept</code></td>
      <td>

>         A required, non-empty, array of objects that map MIME types to file extensions that the PWA handles. For example: <code>{ "audio/wav": [".wav"] }</code> defines that the PWA should handle files that have the <code>audio/wave</code> MIME type and a <code>.wav</code> file extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        A required, non-empty, array of objects that map MIME types to arrays of file extensions that the PWA can handle. For example: <code>{ "audio/wav": [".wav"] }</code> defines that the PWA can handle files that have the <code>audio/wave</code> MIME type and a <code>.wav</code> file extension.
```

In this example, a web app manifest declares one file handler that registers the app to handle audio files. Other manifest members such as `name`, or `icons` are not included in this example for brevity:

```json
{
  "file_handlers": [
    {
      "action": "/handle-audio-file",
      "accept": {
        "audio/wav": [".wav"],
        "audio/x-wav": [".wav"],
        "audio/mpeg": [".mp3"],
        "audio/mp4": [".mp4"],
        "audio/aac": [".adts"],
        "audio/ogg": [".ogg"],
        "application/ogg": [".ogg"],
        "audio/webm": [".webm"],
        "audio/flac": [".flac"]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

To actually implement file handling in a PWA, web developers also need to use {{domxref("window.launchQueue")}} to handle the incoming file.

In this example, {{domxref("LaunchQueue.setConsumer", "window.launchQueue.setConsumer()")}} is used to specify a callback function that plays the handled audio file:

```js
async function playSong(handledFile) {
  const blob = await file.getFile();
  const url = window.URL.createObjectURL(blob);
  const audio = new Audio(url);
  audio.play();
}

if ("launchQueue" in window) {
  window.launchQueue.setConsumer((launchParams) => {

>     if (launchParams.files && launchParams.files.length === 1) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (launchParams.files && launchParams.files.length) {
```

This way the code still works and you imply there could be more than one file.

---
title: file_handlers
slug: Web/Manifest/file_handlers
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: html.manifest.file_handlers
---

{{QuickLinksWithSubpages("/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Type</th>
      <td><code>Array</code></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Mandatory</th>
      <td>No</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

The `file_handlers` member specifies an array of objects representing the types of files an installed [progressive web app (PWA)](/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps) can handle.

The `file_handlers` member is read by the browser when the PWA is installed and used to associate the application with a given set of file types at the operating system level.

> For example, a PWA can be registered to handle files that match the `text/plain` [MIME type](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types). Once installed, the operating system might use the PWA to handle text files. Note that the way operating systems manage the association between file types and applications, and the way they let users select an application to handle a given file can vary.

Author: I like it. Making the change.

> **Note:** While the `file_handlers` member is used to register a PWA with a given set of file types, this only results in the operating system launching the PWA when a matching file is opened. The PWA then needs to actually handle the file using JavaScript code. See [Handling the files](#handling_the_files) for more information.

## Values

> Each object in the file handler array must contain the following values (`action` and `accept` are required):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An array of objects. Each object in the array must contain the following values (`action` and `accept` are required):
```

<table class="fullwidth-table standard-table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col">Member</th>
      <th scope="col">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td><code>action</code></td>
      <td>

>         A string containing the URL to navigate to when a file is handled. This URL should be within the <a href="/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest/scope">scope</a> of the PWA.

Author: All PWAs have a scope, whether they define it by using the `scope` member or not. I'll attempt to make this clearer here.

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><code>accept</code></td>
      <td>

>         A non-empty array of objects that map MIME types to arrays of file extensions that the PWA can handle. For example: <code>{ "audio/wav": [".wav"] }</code> defines that the PWA can handle files that have the <code>audio/wave</code> MIME type and a <code>.wav</code> file extension.

Reviewer 2: `accept` isn't an "array of objects" though, it is an object isn't it? I would write this to be more descriptive of the syntax, like:

> An object. For each property in the object:
> - The property key is a MIME type
> - The property value is an array of strings representing file extensions associated with that MIME type.
>
> Each property declares that the associated `action` URL can handle files with the given MIME type and any of the corresponding extensions.

I'm not super happy with including an example in here but I can see how it's helpful. But it would be more readable if it were presented as a block rather than inline:

> For example, the following value indicates that the PWA can ... :
> 
> ```json
> "accept": {
>   "audio/wav": [".wav"]
> }
> ```

Author: Using a code block would require writing the HTML syntax for it `<pre class="..."><code>...` since this is all inside of a big HTML table. Perhaps it's better to leave the example out? We've got an example section just below anyway.
